So let's work on our authReducer and for the moment as I mentioned, we'll ignore any HTTP requests we send,
so for example this will stay here but instead, my goal is to dispatch actions once we're done with the
HTTP request,
so once we got a response,
so for example here where I tap in and I call this handle authentication, in handle authentication, we
effectively create a new user object
and previously, we used our subject to then emit this to our application.
This is exactly what I need to store in my @ngrx/store now and that is therefore where I want to step
in and dispatch a new action,
so here in handle authentication. The same for example in logout, there where we cleared our user,
so basically whenever I called user next in all these places, I want to step in and use NgRx and
dispatch and action. For that we need actions,
so let's go back here and add an auth.actions.ts file and in that auth.actions.ts file,
let's create a couple of constants again,
a couple of identifiers for these different actions and which actions do we have here?
Well we have login for example, so when a user did login and we also of course have logout when a user
did logout and therefore should be removed,
so when that user object should be cleared.
Now as you learned, actions are not just about their identifiers,
instead an action is an object based on a class.
So export a class here, named login and there just as before, we'll implement action which is imported,
so let's import action from @ngrx/store,
that's important.
Now this action interface which we implement forces us to add a readonly type and that type here will
be login,
that's the identifier for the login action.
Now when logging in, we want to create and store a new user and if we have a look at the auth service,
at handle authentication, we see that a user is in the end created here with e-mail, user ID, token and expiration
date.
Now we have two routes we can take,
we can either create the user before we dispatch and then just attach the finished user object to
the action as a payload or we attach these four pieces of information as a payload and create the user
in the reducer.
Now ultimately, that is up to you but I'm a fan of moving more of that logic into the reducer
and therefore in my action here, I'll add a constructor,
well we would have needed that anyways but here, my payload will actually be a type or of type object
where we get these four pieces that make up a user - e-mail, user ID, token and expiration date.
So e-mail which is a string, a user ID which is a string, a token which is a string and an expiration
date which is a date object.
This is how payload for the login action will look for me but as I mentioned, you could also argue that
a payload is just a user object and then you create that user object before you dispatch. Anyways,
that's the login class I want to go with,
now we also need a logout class that implements action and that's our logout action.
This also has a readonly type which is in this case logout and does it need any payload, any data that
is attached to it?
No it doesn't, it doesn't need any payload because if we logout, we just want to clear a user but we
need no extra data for that,
we will just set user equal to null.
Therefore, this looks like a good auth actions file to me, almost at least,
I of course want to export my union type, my auth actions union type just as we had it in the shopping list
actions file as well,
there we had the shopping list actions where we united all these actions into one type,
I want to do the same here and there for login or logout can all be used with that of actions summary
or union type here,
back to the auth reducer. In the reducer, I now of course want to use my actions and first of all, we can
be clear about the type action will be here,
it will be of type auth actions, auth actions is here imported from auth actions and we could definitely
import it like this but I will fallback to that star as auth actions
import syntax, now auth actions is an object with all of things exported by the auth actions file and therefore
if I want to have the auth actions type, we have to access it with .auth actions.
Now this double name might be confusing but again, the first part here is just this container name of all
the things that are exported by the file and then with a dot we accessed the different exported things,
like our string identifiers or this auth actions union type. Now inside of the reducer, we can again
switch on the action type and handle the different cases and the first case on my auth actions will
be login, the second case will be logout, not the class though but the identifier with the uppercase
characters and we will also have a default case where we just return the state,
this is extremely important for correctly initializing our overall store. Now let's start with the login
auth action,
what's the idea here?
What do we have to do? Well if we have a look at the auth service, we in the end called handle authentication
where we in the end have to simply create such a user object, with the data we're getting,
that's all we have to do for now.
So in the auth reducer, I will create a new user here by calling new user, using the user model which you
therefore need to import into this file,
we are already doing that here and now to that user, we need to pass some data and that's all data we're
getting from our payload.
So user here takes an e-mail for example,
we get that from our action.payload which has an e-mail property. For the ID it's the same,
we have a payload which has a user ID property. For the token,
it's again the same with a payload with our token property
and for the date, again we have a payload with an expiration date property.
So this creates a new user object
and now of course we don't need to emit this with a subject, we simply have to return this as part of
our state for this part of the application store.
So here, we return a new object and just as before, always copy the old state and then overwrite what
you want to overwrite
and here I want to overwrite the user property and store my new user,
so I set user equal to user, where the first user refers to my user property in that state slice
and the second user after the colon refers to this constant.
Now the green wiggly lines here simply mean that I could shorten this to just this syntax which is a TypeScript
simplification that allows me to,
if the variable name of the value and the property name are the same, we can shorten this but to
make it really clear what's happening,
I'm deliberately using the longer syntax. Now for logging out,
it's very simple, there
I also want to copy the old state and then I will set user to null here,
it's as simple as that,
just want to clear it. Well with that, the reducer is prepared, the actions are prepared,
what's missing?
We're never dispatching actions and of course, we're also not using our store in any part of the application,
instead we're still always using our subject here, our user subject from the shopping list service.
Let's tackle that next.